wiki/1

§ Liquid Staking

⸺ by Charles Iliya Krempeaux

**Liquid Staking** is a concept associated with [[defi]] and [[dapp]]s.

This will take a bit of explaining.

§§ Database

In [[infotech]], [[database]]s are very very common.

Many [[application]]s use some type of [[database]] to store data.

The type of //data// (that gets stored in a database) depends on the [[application]].
For example — a //to-do list// application would store the items in the //to-do list// in the database.
Alternatively, for example — a //contact list// would store the details of the people in the //contact list// in a database.
Etc.

Although this was //not// always the case, at a certain point in time, [[relational-database]]s become the dominant form of [[database]].
(And, as a side note, the [[sql]] querying-language become dominant with it.)

Decades later, after [[relational-database]]s become the dominant, the (poorly named) [[nosql]] databases challenged the dominance of the  [[relational-database]]s.

Another form of [[database]] eventually came into use — the [[blockchain-network]].

§§ Blockchain Network

Similar to how the [[world-wide-web]] can be thought of as a //public decentralized// [[file-system]], [[blockchain-network]]s can be thought of as a //public decentralized// [[database]].

There are different //types// of these [[blockchain-network]]s — and there are a number of (let's say) //orthogonal// ways of classifying [[blockchain-network]]s.
One of those ways is — how new information gets into the [[blockchain-network]].

Two common ways make sure of —

• [[proof-of-stake]], and
• [[proof-of-work]].

We are going to focus on [[proof-of-stake]], since it is what is relevant to **liquid staking**.

§§ Proof Of Stake

Many decentralized system need a method of coming to //consensus//.

In the case of a [[database]], the //consensus// is usually about what data //is// (and //is not//) in the database.
A decentralized system like this is made up of many computers — //how do you get all those computers to agree on what is (and is not) in the datbase//.

A [[blockchain-network]], which is a decentralized system, is no different.

The technique that //some// [[blockchain-network]]s use to come to //consensus// is — [[proof-of-stake]].

The basic idea of [[proof-of-stake]] is —
You (or anyone else) can create what is called a [[proof-of-stake-validator-node]].
To create a [[proof-of-stake-validator-node]], typically you need — one or more computers, a public-private key pair, and you need to //stake// a certain amount of the //tokens// or //coins// that are part of the [[blockchain-network]].
That last //need// is where [[proof-of-stake]] gets its name from.
Data gets into the [[blockchain-network]] as a series of blocks.
(A //block// contains a set of data.)
The [[blockchain-network]] chooses a [[proof-of-stake-validator-node]] to add the next //block// of data.
The [[proof-of-stake-validator-node]] is //rewarded// for doing this, by being given some //tokens// or //coins// that are part of the [[blockchain-network]].

The schedule by which the [[proof-of-stake-validator-node]] receives the //reward// can vary from [[blockchain-network]] to [[blockchain-network]].

Also, when a [[proof-of-stake-validator-node]] is set up, the //staked// amount can be locked in for a certain period for time.

§§ Liquid

That is what causes the problem.

A [[proof-of-stake-validator-node]] has some amount of //tokens// or //coins// (that are part of the [[blockchain-network]]) locked up.
While it is locked up —
They cannot transfer them to anyone else.
They cannot buy anything with it.
They cannot sell them.
They cannot trade them.

Sometimes the lock up period can be a long time.
Months.
Maybe even years.

But they might want their //tokens// or //coins// (that are part of the [[blockchain-network]]) now.
But they are locked up — so what do they do‽

That is where **liquid staking** comes in.

Special system is created where their — when someone stakes their //tokens// or //coins// (that are part of the [[blockchain-network]]) on a [[proof-of-stake-validator-node]], they are given a [[liquid-staking-token]] (**LST**).

That **LST** can be sold, or transfered, etc.
Probably for less than the ultimate value of the **LST**.
But through this — they can get a lot of their money now.
